hey everybody Curtis here with another
pedal demo comparison for you this time
it is the keys Minh pedals earlybird
overdrive compared to the original
Marshall Blues breaker that it is
loosely based off of and I'm gonna be
using my mjt vtt Telecaster guitar with
Porter pickups into my matchless
lightning 15 watt amplifier into its 112
speaker cabinet miked with a sennheiser
e 906 and here is my clean tone
and here is the early bird
and now the original blues breaker
yes that's right folks the original
Marshall Blues breaker with all knobs at
noon is quieter than my clean tone this
is one of the things that was lacking in
the original blues breaker didn't really
have enough volume or Headroom and so if
you didn't have the volume cranked all
the way it really was a weak pedal so
now I'm just gonna have it cranked all
the way I'll let you listen again
you
so as you can tell even with the volume
cranked all the way and the gain still
at noon we really don't have a whole lot
of gain or even volume push to the amp
and so this is one of the things that
the keys Minh earlybird really addresses
in their modified version of the Blues
breaker
they really increase the volume as well
you'll see they increase the gain the
earlybird is sort of billed as a
transparent light or medium gain
overdrive can get kind of gritty it's
true bypass with more gain and volume
then the original Blues breaker so now
I'm just going to change some settings a
little bit I'm going to leave the volume
cranked on the original Blues breaker
and turn up the game and then I'm going
to turn up the volume actually on the
original Blues breaker and you will find
we will get a similar sound maybe not
exactly the same but you can hear that
the earlybird one of the great things
about having more volume is you can have
the gain knob lower and here's some of
that fine grit and have that volume
increasing the level with the gain set
minimal and you can get a nice lighter
overdrive sound so here's clean
now here's the original
and now we will increase the gain will
back off on the volume this is the
volume knob on the keys been early bird
this is tone and this is the gain right
here so we will back off on the volume
and we will increase the game and then
we will try and get a similar sound out
of the original and basically what we're
doing is we're trying to show you a
higher gain setting and probably
somewhere about there but you can still
see there's a ton of volume of room left
on the original and there's also half of
the volume still left on the early bird
and there's still some gain available on
the early bird you can crank it further
and get more over driven tones but the
gain is maxed out on the original
Bluesbreakers
so here we go
and right now I'm just gonna max the
gain on the early bird bring back the
volume a little bit and just show you
some more of the gain range that's
available in the early bird
and once again compared to the max gain
available in the original
so there you have it folks the keys Minh
earlybird overdrive compared to the
original Marshall Blues record that is
loosely based on thank you so much for
watching like if you like dislike if you
absolutely have to please subscribe to
my channel if you can I do appreciate
all the likes and views and comments
have a great day bye